The Beacons

Rubens, the grove of case, Nepenthe's river 
Couch of cool flesh, where Love may never be, 
But where life ever flows and seems to quiver 
As air in heaven, or, in the sea, the sea.

Da Vinci, dusky mirror and profound, 
Where angels, smiling mystery, appear, 
Shaded by pines and glaciers, that surround 
And seem to shut their country in the rear.

Rembrandt, sad hospital of murmurs, where 
Adorned alone by one great crucifix, 
From offal-heaps exhales the weeping prayer 
That winter shoots a sunbeam to transfix.

Vague region, Michelangelo, where Titans 
Are mixed with Christs: and strong ghosts rise, in crowds 
To stand bolt upright in the gloom that lightens, 
With gristly talons tearing through their shrouds.

Rage of the boxer, mischief of the faun, 
Extracting beauty out of blackguards' looks &mdash; 
The heart how proud, the man how pinched and drawn &mdash; 
Puget the mournful emperor of crooks!

Watteau, the carnival, where famous hearts 
Go flitting by like butterflies that burn, 
While through gay scenes each chandelier imparts 
A madness to the dancers as they turn.

Goya's a nightmare full of things unguessed, 
Of foeti stewed on nights of witches' revels. 
Crones ogle mirrors; children scarcely dressed, 
Adjust their hose to tantalise the devils.

A lake of gore where fallen angels dwell 
Is Delacroix, by firwoods ever fair, 
Where under fretful skies strange fanfares swell 
Like Weber's sighs and heartbeats in the air.

These curses, blasphemies, and lamentations, 
These ecstasies, tears, cries and soaring psalms &mdash; 
Through endless mazes, their reverberations 
Bring, to our mortal hearts, divinest balms.

A thousand sentinels repeat the cry. 
A thousand trumpets echo. Beacon-tossed 
A thousand summits flare it through the sky, 
A call of hunters in the jungle lost.

And certainly this is the most sublime 
Proof of our worth and value, Oh Divinity, 
That this great sob rolls on through ageless time 
To die upon the shores of your infinity.

