Lesbos

Mother of Latin revelry and of Greek delight,
Lesbos, whereof the kisses, disconsolate or gay,
Hot as the sun, or cool as melons plucked by night,
Beguile the unshadowed and the shadowed hours away;
Mother of Latin revelry and of Greek delight,

Lesbos, whereof the kisses are whirlpools and cascades
Journeying carelessly into a dark abyss:
So wild the sobbing and laughter among thy colonnades,
So secret, so profound, so stormy, every kiss!
Lesbos, whereof the kisses are whirlpools and cascades!

Lesbos, where the sweet slaves one to another yearn,
Where there is never a glance without an echoing sign;
Even as upon Cyprus the stars upon thee burn
With praise, and Cyprus' queen is envious of thine,
Lesbos, where the sweet slaves one to mother yearn -- 

Lesbos, of sultry twilights and pure, infertile joy,
Where deep-eyed maidens, thoughtlessly disrobing, see
Their beauty, and are entranced before their mirrors, and toy
Fondly with the soft fruits of their nubility;
Lesbos, of sultry twilights and pure, infertile joy!

Let frown the old lined forehead of Plato as it will: 
Thy pardon is assured -- even by the strange excess, 
Luxurious isle, of thy long sterile rapture, still 
Contriving some new freak or form of tenderness; 
Let frown the old lined forehead of Plato as it will.

Thy pardon has been bought with our eternal pain, 
The lonely martyrdom endured in every age 
By those who sigh for pleasures outlandish and insane 
To ease the unearthly longing no pleasure can assuage. 
Thy pardon has been bought with our eternal pain.

Who, Lesbos, of the gods would dare pronounce thy fate 
And brand thy passionate white brow with infamy -- 
Or hope by any art or science to estimate 
The tears, the tears thy streams have poured into the sea? 
Who, Lesbos, of the gods would dare pronounce thy fate?

What are men's laws to us, injurious or benign? 
Proud virgins, glory of the Aegean! We know well 
Love, be it most foredoomed, most desperate, is divine, 
And love will always laugh at heaven and at hell! 
What are men's laws to us, injurious or benign?

Lo! I was named by Lesbos of all the lists of earth 
To celebrate her sad-eyed girls and their sweet lore: 
And I have known from childhood the noise of loud, crazed mirth 
Confused mysteriously with terrible weeping -- for 
Lo! I was named by Lesbos of all the lists of earth.

And I have watched thenceforward from the Leucadian cliff,
Like an unwearying old sentry, who can descry
Far out on the horizon a sailboat or a skiff
Invisible to others, with his sharp, practised eye;
And I have watched thenceforward from the Leucadian cliff

To find if the cold wave were pitiful and good -- 
And someday I shall see come wandering home, I know, 
To all-forgiving Lesbos upon the twilight flood 
The sacred ruins of Sappho, who set forth long ago 
To find if the cold wave were pitiful and good;

Of Sappho, poet and lover -- the virile, calm, and brave, 
More beautiful than Venus, by force of earthly grief -- 
More beautiful than blue-eyed Venus, with her grave 
And dusky glance disclosing the sorrows past belief 
Of Sappho, poet and lover -- the virile, calm, and brave:

More beautiful than Venus arising to the world
And scattering all round her the iridescent fire
Of her blond loveliness with rainbow hues impearled
Upon the old green ocean, her bedazzled sire;
More beautiful than Venus arising to the world!

-- Of Sappho, who died proudly the day of her soul's crime
When, faithless to her teaching and to her serious pledge,
She flung the occult dark roses of her love sublime
To a vain churl. Alas! How deep the sacrilege
Of Sappho, who died proudly the day of her soul's crime!

And from that day to this the isle of Lesbos mourns --  
And heedful of the world's late homage in no wise, 
Gives answer but with the hollow moaning of her wild bourns: 
The sea's long obloquy to the unlistening skies! 
And from that day to this the isle of Lesbos mourns.

