Lesbos

Mother of Grecian joys and Latin games,
Lesbos, where kisses, languishing or gay,
As melons cool, or warm as solar flames,
Adorn alike the glorious night and day:
Mother of Grecian joys and Latin games,

Lesbos of kisses reckless as cascades 
That hurl themselves to bottomless abysses, 
Stormy and secret, myriad-swarming kisses, 
That cluck and sob and gurgle in the shades. 
Lesbos of kisses reckless as cascades!

Lesbos where Phrynes each to each are plighted,
Where never yet unanswered went a sigh,
Where Paphos with a rival is requited,
And Venus with a Sappho has to vie!
Lesbos where Phrynes each to each are plighted,

Lesbos, the land of warm and languid night,
Where gazing in their mirrors as they dress
The cave-eyed girls, in barren, vain delight,
The fruits of their nubility caress.
Lesbos, the land of warm and languid night,

Let Plato frown austerely all the while. 
Your pardon's from excess of kisses won, 
Queen of sweet empire, rare and noble isle -- 
And from refinements which are never done.
 Let Plato frown austerely all the while.

From martyrdom your pardon you beguile,
Inflicted without stint on hearts that soar 
Far, far away, drawn by some radiant smile 
Seen vaguely on a strange celestial shore. 
From martyrdom your pardon you beguile.

Lesbos, what God to judge you would make bold, 
Or damn your brows so pale and sadly grave, 
Not having weighed upon the scales of gold 
The floods of tears you've poured into the wave. 
Lesbos which God to judge you would make bold?

For us, what mean the statutes of the just? 
Pride of the isles, whose hearts sublimely swell, 
Your faith as any other is august 
And Love can laugh alike at Heaven and Hell. 
For us, what mean the statues of the just?

For Lesbos chose me of all men on earth 
To sing the secrets of her virgin flowers, 
Taught as a child the sacred rites of mirth 
And mysteries of sorrow which are ours. 
So Lesbos chose me of all men on earth.

Since then I watch on the Leucadian height. 
Like a lone sentry with a piercing view 
Who sees the vessels ere they heave in sight 
With forms that faintly tremble in the blue. 
Since then I watch on the Leucadian height

To find out if the sea's heart still is hardened 
And from the sobs that drench the rock with spray 
If it will bring back Sappho, who has pardoned, 
The corpse of the adored, who went away 
To find out that the sea its heart has hardened;

Of the male Sappho, lover, queen of singers,
More beautiful than Venus by her woes.
The blue eye cannot match the black, where lingers
The shady circle that her grief bestows
On the male Sappho, lover, queen of singers -- 

Fairer than Venus towering on the world
And pouring down serenity like water
In the blond radiance of her tresses curled
To daze the very Ocean with her daughter,
Fairer than Venus towering on the world -- 

Of Sappho, whom her blasphemy requited 
The day she quit the rite and scorned the cult, 
And gave her lovely body to be slighted 
By a rough brute, whose scorn was the result 
For Sappho, whom the blasphemy requited.

And since that time has Lesbos lived lamenting 
In spite of all the honours of mankind, 
And lives upon the storm-howl unrelenting 
Of its bleak shores, the sport of wave and wind: 
For since that time has Lesbos lived lamenting.

