Lovers of the Damned

Under pale flickering lamps, deep in recesses 
Of lissome cushions of suave redolence, 
Hippolyta mused of the fierce caresses 
That raised the veils of her young innocence.

Her gaze still ravaged by the storm, she eyed 
The distant sides of her once candid mind 
As a spent voyager who turns aside 
To view blue vistas he has left behind.

The lazy tears in her lackluster glances, 
Her beaten stuporous air, her weariness, 
Her aching arms drooping like futile lances, 
All served to foster her frail loveliness.

Rapt with calm joy, Delphine, her lover, lay 
Prone at her feet; eyes blazing with delight, 
She was a strong beast gazing at the prey 
On which her teeth had marked their savage bite.

Strong beauty knelt before frail beauty there -- 
Superb, she savored with voluptuous mood 
The wine of triumph, and, as though in prayer, 
Her hands solicited sweet gratitude.

She scanned her dupe's pale glance to find in it 
The muted hymn lust raises to the skies, 
And thankfulness, sublime and infinite, 
Which glances utter soft as long-drawn sighs.

-- &quot;Hippolyta, what of this strange sweet thing? 
You need not sully your first roses now 
To brutal man as a burnt-offering 
His violent breath would wither on the bough.

My kiss moves lightly as a May fly moves, 
Caressing the great limpid lakes at eve, 
But a man's kisses will dig furrowed grooves 
Such as huge carts or tearing plowshares leave.

They will pass over you like stamping kine, 
Like ox or horse teams cruelly iron-shod, 
Hippolyta, turn your blest face toward mine, Y
ou, dearer to my heart than self or God.

Your eyes are stars across soft azure nights, 
One look from you and I shall lift extreme 
Veils to reveal the subtlest of delights, 
Cradling you gently in an endless dream.&quot;

Hippolyta then raised her youthful head:
-- &quot;No ingrate, I repent not in the least, 
Delphine, but I feel choked and ill,&quot; she said, 
&quot;As after some galling nocturnal feast.

I feel grim fears, I reel under their loads, 
While black battalions of sparse phantoms stride, 
Eager to lead me down dire, shifting roads, 
Which bloody sky-rims block on every side.

What could be strange in what we did tonight? 
Why all my worries and discomfitures? 
You call me "Angel" and I start with fright, 
And yet I feel my mouth straining for yours!

Do not look at me thus, sister to whom 
By choice I pledged eternal adoration, 
Even were you a snare set for my doom 
And the first instrument of my damnation.&quot;

Shaking her tragic mane, rapt, fatal-eyed, 
Stamping her foot as on the Tripod of 
The Oracle, Delphine, despotic, cried:
-- &quot;Who dares to speak of hell when faced with love?

Curst be the first vain dreamer who evolved 
A sterile code of laws and stupidly 
Thrilled by vexed problems that cannot be solved 
Sought to compound love and morality.

He who would couple in a mystic mesh 
Coolness with heat and marry day with night 
Shall never warm his palsy-stricken flesh 
In that red sun which is our love's delight.

Go find a stupid lover, do not fail
To yield your chaste heart to his harsh requests,
Then horrified, remorseful, ashen-pale,
Return to me with bruised stigmatic breasts.

Woman on earth can serve only one master!... &quot;
But the girl answered: &quot;All my senses smart!
I feel sharp premonitions of disaster, 
A pit yawns in me, and that pit, my heart!

Volcano-hot and deep as nullity, 
Nothing will stay this monster's headlong flood 
Nor slake the thirst of that Eumenide 
Who, torch in hand, consumes his very blood.

Let our drawn curtains screen us from alarms, 
And let our lassitude bring us full rest, 
I wish to die between your sinewy arms 
And find the cool of tombs upon your breast.&quot;

Go down, go down, sad victims to the climes
Of an eternal hell, all hope is dead;
Down the unfathomed pit where all known crimes,
Lashed by a wind no heaven ever bred,

Boil to the fury of the tempest's blast. 
The goal of your desires shall turn to dust, 
Mad, raging shades, unsated to the last, 
Your very punishment born of your lust.

No ray shall light the caverns of your shame, 
Fevered miasms filtering through the chinks 
Shall suddenly like lamps burst into flame, 
Steeping your bodies in a sweat that stinks.

The bleak sterility of your lewd fires 
Heightens your thirst and tightens skins that sag, 
As the wild wind of lecherous desires 
Makes your flesh flap like a moth-eaten flag.

Outcast and damned, wandering the far poles, 
Like wolves the frozen wilderness disparts, 
Follow your destiny, disordered souls, 
And flee the infinite that fills your hearts.

