Damned Women

Delphine and Hippolyta

Over deep cushions, drenched with drowsy scents 
Where fading lamplight shed its dying glow, 
Hippolyta recalls and half-repents 
The kisses that first thawed her youthful snow.

She sought, with tempest-troubled gaze, the skies 
Of her first innocence, now far away, 
As travellers who backward turn their eyes 
To blue horizons passed at break of day.

Within her haggard eyes the tears were bright. 
Her broken look, her dazed, voluptuous air, 
Her vanquished arms like weapons shed in Right, 
Enhanced her fragile beauty with despair.

Stretched at her feet Delphine contented lay 
And watched with burning eyeballs from beneath 
Like a fierce tigress who, to guard her prey, 
Has set a mark upon it with her teeth.

Strong beauty there to fragile beauty kneeling, 
Superb, she seemed to sniff the heady wine 
Of triumph: and stretched out to her, appealing 
For the reward of raptures half-divine.

She sought within her victim's pallid eye 
Dumb hymns that pleasure sings without a choir, 
And gratitude that, like a long-drawn sigh, 
Swells from the eyelid, swooning with fire.

"Hippolyta, dear heart, have you no trust? 
Do you not know the folly that exposes 
To the fierce pillage of the brawling gust 
The sacred holocaust of early roses?

My kisses are as light as fairy midges 
That on calm evenings skim the crystal lake. 
Those of your man would plough such ruts and ridge 
As lumbering carts or tearing coulters make.

They'll tramp across you, like a ruthless team 
Of buffaloes or horses, yoked in lust. 
Dear sister, turn your face to me, my dream, 
My soul, my all, my twin, to whom I trust!

Turn me your eyes of deepest, starry blue. 
For one of those deep glances that you send, 
I'd lift the veil of darkest joys for you 
And rock you in a dream that has no end."

But then Hippolyta raised up her head, 
"No blame nor base ingratitude I feel, 
But, as it were, a kind of nauseous dread 
After some terrible, nocturnal meal.

I feel a swooping terror that explodes 
In legions of black ghosts towards me speeding 
Who crowd me on to swiftly moving roads, 
That, sliced by sheer horizons, end up bleeding.

Have we done something monstrous that I tremble?
Explain, then, if you can; for when you say,
'Angel', I cower. Yet I cannot dissemble
That, when you speak, my lips are drawn your way.

Oh, do not fix me with a stare so steady 
You whom I love till death in still submission, 
Yes, even though you, like an ambush ready, 
Are the beginning of my own perdition."

Then Delphine stamped and shook her tragic mane, 
And, like a priestess, foaming and fierce, and fell, 
Spoke in a lordly and prophetic strain
&mdash; "Who dares, in front of Love, to mention Hell?

Curbed forever be that useless dreamer 
Who first imagined, in his brutish mind, 
Of sheer futility the fatuous schemer, 
Honour with Love could ever be combined.

He who in mystic union would enmesh 
Shadow with warmth, and daytime with the night, 
Will never warm his paralytic flesh 
At the red sun of amorous delight.

Go, if you wish, and seek some boorish lover:
Offer your virgin heart to his crude hold,
Full of remorse and horror you'll recover,
And bring me your scarred breast to be consoled...

Down here, a soul can only serve one master." 
But the girl, venting her tremendous woe, 
Cried out "I feel a huge pit of disaster 
Yawning within: it is my heart, I know!

Like a volcano burning, deep as death, 
There's naught that groaning monster can assuage 
Nor quench of thirst the Fury's burning breath 
Who brands it with a torch to make it rage.

Let our closed curtains isolate the rest, 
Until exhaustion bring us sleep, while I 
Annihilate myself upon your breast 
And find in you a tomb on which to die."

Go down, go down, poor victims, it is time; 
The road to endless hell awaits your lusts. 
Plunge to the bottom of the gulf, where crime 
Is flagellated by infernal gusts.

Swirling pell-mell, and with a tempest's roar, 
Mad shades, pursue your craving without measure: 
Your rages will be sated nevermore, 
Your torture is begotten of your pleasure.

No sunbeam through your dungeon will come leaking: 
Only miasmic fevers, through each chink, 
Will filter, like sick lanterns, redly streaking, 
And penetrate your bodies with their stink.

The harsh sterility of all you relish 
Will swell your thirst, and turn you both to hags. 
The wind of your desire, with fury hellish 
Will flog your flapping carrion like wet flags.

Far from live folk, like werewolves howling high, 
Gallop the boundless deserts you unroll. 
Fulfill your doom, disordered minds, and fly 
The infinite you carry in your soul.

