A Voyage to Cythera

My heart, that seemed a bird, was flying in the sun 
Before the mast &mdash; was flying joyously ahead: 
The ship, too, like an angel, all her sails outspread, 
Calmly beneath the unclouded sky flew on and on.

What is that somber island? what dreary port of call? 
"Cythera," someone laughs &mdash; "the legend of the seas, 
Time-honoured Eldorado of aging debauchees. 
Look! It is only a poor, bleak country, after all."

&mdash; O island of sweet revels and the sounding lyre!
O shore of unimaginable secrets, where
The shade of Venus walks upon the twilight air,
Drugging the very soul with languor and desire!

O island of green myrtles never withering!
Thy long renown, by every human tongue confessed,
To the far-scattered nations of the east and west
Is wafted, like the perfume of an endless spring

Or like a dove's nostalgic and eternal moan!
&mdash; Cythera had become, in truth, a wretched land, 
A sullen desert glittering with rock and sand: 
I saw along those shores one sign of life alone.

It was no antique temple nor the ruin thereof, 
Where a young priestess wanders, her light robes unpent, 
Confusing with the scent of flowers the virgin scent 
Of her slim body secretly aflame for love.

No; but we could see clearly, having come so nigh 
That the shore-birds were scolding and beating upon our sails, 
A solitary gibbet constructed of three rails, 
Funereal as a tall dead cypress against the sky.

Some vultures were destroying with energy and address 
A hanged man, ripe already by perhaps a week &mdash; 
Each planting carefully, like a sharp tool, his beak 
In every comer of that dangling rottenness.

The eyes were holes; from the torn groin meandering 
On to the thighs, streamed down the intestines blue and bright; 
Not to be cheated of any possible delight, 
Those birds had absolutely castrated the poor thing.

Below, a pack of jealous wolves, impatient for 
The still suspended, speedily diminishing feast, 
Wove round with lifted muzzles. One gigantic beast 
Was like an executioner among his corps.

Son of Cythera! remnant of a world so brave! 
How silently, with thy black hollow eyes of woe, 
Didst thou hang there, in payment for I do not know 
What desperate crime forbidding thee an honest grave.

Helpless and abject creature! Who art thou but I? 
Beholding thee, I could feel rise into my breast, 
Like a long bitter vomit, all the sick repressed 
Griefs and humiliations of the years gone by.

At sight of thee, poor devil, I could feel the whole 
Rage of the past upon me &mdash; every beak and tooth 
Of those wild birds and animals that in my youth 
Loved tirelessly to lacerate my flesh and soul.

&mdash; The sea was calm and beautiful, the sky was clear: 
What shadow covered them and hid them from my eyes? 
The shadow cast by that symbolic tree! It lies 
Upon my heart like a black pall for ever, I fear.

Naught else, O Venus, in thy whole dominion &mdash; just
That mournful allegory to greet me, in my hour.
Almighty God! Give me the courage and the power
To contemplate my own true image without disgust!

