A Voyage to Cythera

My heart was like a bird and took to flight, 
Around the rigging circling joyously; 
The ship rolled on beneath a cloudless sky 
Like a great angel drunken with the light. 

"What is yon isle, sad and funereal?"
"Cythera, famed in deathless song," say they, 
"The gay old bachelors' Eldorado &mdash; Nay, 
Look! 'tis a poor bare country after all!"

Isle of sweet secrets and heart banquetings! 
The queenly shade of antique Venus thrills 
Scentlike above thy level seas and fills 
Our souls with languor and all amorous things. 

Fair island of green myrtles and blown flowers 
Held holy by all men for evermore. 
Where the faint sighs of spirits that adore 
Float like rose-incense through the quiet hours, 

And dovelike sounds each murmured orison: &mdash; 
Cythera lay there barren 'neath bright skies, 
A rocky waste rent by discordant cries: 
Natheless I saw a curious thing thereon. 

No shady temple was it, close enshrined 
I' the trees; no flower-crowned priestess hither came 
With her young body burnt by secret flame, 
Baring her breast to the caressing wind; 

But when so close to the land's edge we drew 
Our canvas scared the sea-fowl &mdash; gradually 
We knew it for a three-branched gallows tree 
Like a black cypress stark against the blue. 

A rotten carcase hung, whereon did sit 
A swarm of foul black birds; with writhe and shriek 
Each sought to pierce and plunge his knife-like beak 
Deep in the bleeding trunk and limbs of it. 

The eyes were holes; the belly opened wide, 
Streaming its heavy entrails on the thighs; 
The grim birds, gorged with dreadful delicacies. 
Had dug and furrowed it on every side.

Beneath the blackened feet there strove and pressed 
A herd of jealous beasts with upward snout, 
And in the midst of these there turned about 
One, the chief hangman, larger than the rest...

Lone Cytherean! now all silently 
Thou sufferest these insults to atone 
For those old infamous sins that thou hast known, 
The sins that locked the gate o' the grave to thee. 

Mine are thy sorrows, ludicrous corse; yea, all 
Are mine! I stood thy swaying limbs beneath, 
And, like a bitter vomit, to my teeth 
There rose old sorrows in a stream of gall. 

O thou unhappy devil, I felt afresh, 
Gazing at thee, the beaks and jaws of those 
Black savage panthers and those ruthless crows, 
Who loved of old to macerate my flesh. 

The sea was calm, the sky without a cloud; 
Henceforth for me all things that came to pass 
Were blood and darkness, &mdash; round my heart, alas! 
There clung that allegory, like a shroud. 

Naught save mine image on a gibbet thrust 
Found I on Venus island desolate...
Ah, God! the courage and strength to contemplate 
My body and my heart without disgust! 

