Voyage to Cytherea

My heart, a bird, seemed joyfully to fly 
And round the rigging cruised with nimble gyre. 
The vessel rolled beneath the cloudless sky 
Like a white angel, drunk with solar fire.

What is that sad, black island like a pall? 
Why, Cytherea, famed in many a book, 
The Eldorado of old-stagers. Look: 
It's but a damned poor country after all!

Isle of sweet secrets and heart-feasting fire! 
Of antique Venus the majestic ghost 
Rolls like a storm of fragrance from your coast 
Filling our souls with languor and desire!

Isle of green myrtles, where each flower uncloses,
Adored by nations till the end of time:
Sighs of adoring hearts, like incense, climb.
And pour their perfume over sheaves of roses,

Or groves of turtles in an endless coo! 
But no! it was a waste where nothing grows, 
Torn only by the raucous cries of crows: 
Yet there a curious object rose in view.

This was no temple hid in bosky trees, 
Where the young priestess, amorous of flowers, 
Whom secretly a loving flame devours, 
Walks with her robe half-open to the breeze.

For as we moved inshore to coast the shallows 
And our white canvas scared the crows to fly, 
Like a tall cypress, blackened on the sky, 
We saw it was a gaunt three-forking gallows.

Fierce birds, perched on their meal, began to slash 
And rip with rage a rotten corpse that swung. 
Each screwed and chiselled with its beak among 
The crisp and bleeding crannies of the hash.

His eyes were holes: from open stomach direly 
His heavy tripes cascaded to his thighs. 
Gorged with such ghastly dainties to the eyes, 
His torturers had gelded him entirely.

Beneath, some jealous prowling quadrupeds, 
With lifted muzzles, for the leavings scrambled. 
The largest seemed, as in the midst he gambolled, 
An executioner among his aides.

Native of Cytherea's cloudless clime 
In silent suffering you paid the price, 
And expiated ancient cults of vice 
With generations of forbidden crime.

Ridiculous hanged man! Your griefs I know. 
I felt, to see you swing above the heath, 
Like nausea slowly rising to my teeth, 
The bilious stream of ancient human woe.

Poor devil, dear to memory! before me 
I seemed to feel each talon, fang, and beak 
Of all the stinking crows and panthers sleek 
That in my lifetime ever chewed and tore me.

The sky was charming and the sea unclouded, 
But all was black and bloody to my mind. 
As in a dismal winding-sheet entwined, 
My heart was in this allegory shrouded.

A gallows where my image hung apart
Was all I found on Venus' isle of sighs.
O God, give me the strength to scrutinise,
Without disgust, my body and my heart!

