A Phantom

I The Shades

My fate confines me, dark and shady, 
In vaults of lone unfathomed grief. 
No rosy sunbeams bring relief. 
Alone with Night, my grim landlady,

I'm like a painter whom God spites 
To paint on shades, and cook and eat 
My own poor heart, the only meat 
Of my funereal appetites.

Sometimes a spectre dim, reclining 
In grace and glory, can be seen. 
With dreamy oriental mien.

When fully its own form defining, 
I recognise who it must be, 
Sombre yet luminous, it's She!

II The Perfume

Reader, say, have you ever breathed, 
With lazy greed and joy, the dusk 
Of an old church with incense wreathed, 
Or smelt an ancient bag of musk?

It's by such charms the Nevermore 
Intoxicates us in the Now &mdash; 
As lovers to Remembrance bow 
Over the bodies they adore.

From her thick tresses as they fume 
(Scent-sack and censer of the room) 
A feline, tawny perfume springs.

Her muslins and her velvets smooth 
Give off, made pregnant with her youth, 
Scents of the fur of prowling things.

III The Frame

As a fine frame improves a plate 
Although the graver needs no vaunting &mdash; 
I know not what of strange and haunting 
(From nature vast to isolate

Her beauty) was conferred by gems, 
Metals, and gear. She mingled with them, 
And swirled them all into her rhythm 
As in her skirts the flouncing herns.

They say she thought all things were stung 
With love for her. Her naked flesh 
She loved to drown in kisses fresh

Of flax or satin. To her clung, 
In all the movements of her shape, 
The childish graces of the ape.

IV The Portrait

Sickness and death will form the ash and dust
Of all the fire we blazed with in such splendour,
Of those great eyes so fervent and so tender,
The mouth wherein my heart would drown its lust,

The kisses strong as marum, the delightful,
Fierce transports livelier than the solar rays.
What can remain? My soul, the truth is frightful!
A fading sketch, a faint three-coloured haze,

Which (like myself unfriended) wanes away,
While Time, insulting dotard, every day,
Brushes it fainter with his heedless wing...

Killer of life and art! black, evil King!
You'll never kill, within my soul, the story 
Of that which was my rapture and my glory.

