The Swan

To Victor Hugo

Andromache! -- This shallow stream, the brief
Mirror you once so grandly overcharged
With your vast majesty of widowed grief,
This lying Simois your tears enlarged,

Evoked your name, and made me think of you, 
As I was crossing the new Carrousel.
-- Old Paris is no more (cities renew, 
Quicker than human hearts, their changing spell).

In mind I see that camp of huts, the muddle 
Of rough-hewn roofs and leaning shafts for miles, 
The grass, green logs stagnating in the puddle, 
Where bric-a-brac lay glittering in piles.

Once a menagerie parked there. 
And there it chanced one morning, when from slumber freed, 
Labour stands up, and Transport through still air 
Rumbles its sombre hurricane of speed, -- 

A swan escaped its cage: and as its feet 
With finny palms on the harsh pavement scraped, 
Trailing white plumage on the stony street, 
In the dry gutter for fresh water gaped.

Nervously bathing in the dust, in wonder 
It asked, remembering its native stream, 
"When will the rain come down? When roll the thunder?" 
I see it now, strange myth and fatal theme!

Sometimes, like Ovid's wretch, towards the sky 
(Ironically blue with cruel smile) 
Its neck, convulsive, reared its head on high 
As though it were its Maker to revile.

II

Paris has changed, but in my grief no change. 
New palaces and scaffoldings and blocks, 
To me, are allegories, nothing strange. 
My memories are heavier than rocks.

Passing the Louvre, one image makes me sad:
That swan, like other exiles that we knew,
Grandly absurd, with gestures of the mad,
Gnawed by one craving! -- Then I think of you,

Who fell from your great husband's arms, to be 
A beast of freight for Pyrrhus, and for life, 
Bowed by an empty tomb in ecstasy -- 
Great Hector's widow! Helenus's wife!

I think, too, of the starved and phthisic negress 
Tramping the mud, who seeks, with haggard eye, 
The palms of Africa, and for some egress 
Out of this great black wall of foggy sky:

Of those who've lost what they cannot recover: 
Of those who slake with tears their lonely hours 
And milk the she-wolf, Sorrow, for their mother: 
And skinny orphans withering like flowers.

So in the forest of my soul's exile, 
Remembrance winds his horn as on he rides. 
I think of sailors stranded on an isle, 
Captives, and slaves -- and many more besides.

