The Seven Old Men

To Victor Hugo

Ant-seething city, city full of dreams, 
Where ghosts by daylight tug the passer's sleeve. 
Mystery, like sap, through all its conduit-streams, 
Quickens the dread Colossus that they weave.

One early morning, in the street's sad mud,
Whose houses, by the fog increased in height,
Seemed wharves along a riverside in flood:
When with a scene to match the actor's plight,

Foul yellow mist had filled the whole of space: 
Steeling my nerves to play a hero's part, 
I coaxed my weary soul with me to pace 
The backstreets shaken by each lumbering cart.

A wretch appeared whose tattered, yellow clothing, 
Matching the colour of the raining skies, 
Could make it shower down alms &mdash; but for the loathing 
Malevolence that glittered in his eyes.

The pupils of his eyes, with bile injected, 
Seemed with their glance to make the frost more raw. 
Stiff as a sword, his long red beard projected, 
Like that of Judas, level with his jaw.

He was not bent, but broken, with the spine
Forming a sharp right-angle to the straight,
So that his stick, to finish the design,
Gave him the stature and the crazy gait

Of a three-footed Jew, or crippled hound. 
He plunged his soles into the slush as though 
To crush the dead; and to the world around 
Seemed less of an indifferent than a foe.

His image followed him, (back, stick, and beard 
In nothing differed) spawned from the same hole, 
A centenarian twin. Both spectres steered 
With the same gait to the same unknown goal.

To what foul plot was I exposed? of what 
Humiliating hazard made the jeer? 
For seven times, (I counted) was begot 
This sinister, self multiplying fear!

Let him mark well who laughs at my despair 
With no fraternal shudder in reply...
Those seven loathsome monsters had the air, 
Though rotting through, of what can never die.

Disgusting Phoenix, his own sire and father! 
Could I have watched an eighth instalment spawn 
Ironic, fateful, grim &mdash; nor perished rather? 
But from that hellish cortege I'd withdrawn.

Perplexed as drunkards when their sight is doubled, 
I locked my room, sick, fevered, chilled with fright:
With all my spirit sorely hurt and troubled 
By so ridiculous yet strange a sight.

Vainly my reason for the helm was striving: 
The tempest of my efforts made a scorn. 
My soul like a dismasted wreck went driving 
Over a monstrous sea without a bourn.

