The Seven Old Men

To Victor Hugo

Teeming, swarming city, city full of dreams, 
Where specters in broad day accost the passer-by! 
Everywhere mysteries flow like the sap in a tree 
Through the narrow canals of the mighty giant.

One morning, while in a gloomy street the houses,
Whose height was increased by the mist, simulated
The quais of a swollen river, and while
-- A setting that was like the actor's soul -- 

A dirty yellow fog inundated all space, 
I was following, steeling my nerves like a hero, 
Arid arguing with my already weary soul, 
A squalid street shaken by the heavy dump-carts.

Suddenly an old man whose tattered yellow clothes
Were of the same color as the rainy heavens,
And whose aspect would have brought him showers of alms
If his eyes had not gleamed with so much wickedness,

Appeared to me. One would have said his eyes were drenched 
With gall; his look sharpened the winter's chill, 
And his long shaggy beard, like that of Judas, 
Projected from his chin as stiffly as a sword.

He was not bent over, but broken; his back-bone
Made with his legs a perfect right angle,
So that his stick, completing the picture,
Gave him the appearance and clumsy gait

Of a lame quadruped or a three-legged Jew.
He went hobbling along in the snow and the mud
As if he were crushing the dead under his shoes;
Hostile, rather than indifferent to the world,

His likeness followed him: beard, eye, back, stick, tatters, 
No mark distinguished this centenarian twin, 
Who came from the same hell, and these baroque specters 
Were walking with the same gait toward an unknown goal.

Of what infamous plot was I then the object, 
Or what evil chance humiliated me thus? 
For I counted seven times in as many minutes 
That sinister old man who multiplied himself!

Let him who laughs at my disquietude, 
And who is not seized with a fraternal shudder, 
Realize that in spite of such decrepitude 
Those hideous monsters had an eternal look!

Could I, without dying, have regarded the eighth, 
Unrelenting Sosia, ironic and fatal, 
Disgusting Phoenix, son and father of himself?
-- But I turned my back on that hellish procession.

Exasperated like a drunk who sees double, 
I went home; I locked the door, terrified, 
Chilled to the bone and ill, my mind fevered, confused, 
Hurt by that mysterious and absurd happening!

Vainly my reason tried to take the helm;
The frolicsome tempest baffled all its efforts,
And my soul, old sailing barge without masts,
Kept dancing, dancing, on a monstrous, shoreless sea!

