The Little Old Women

To Victor Hugo

I

in sinuous folds of cities old and grim, 
Where all things, even horror, turn to grace, 
I follow, in obedience to my whim, 
Strange, feeble, charming creatures round the place.

These crooked freaks were women in their pride,
Fair Eponine or Lais! Humped and bent,
Love them! Because they still have souls inside.
Under their draughty skirts in tatters rent,

They crawl: a vicious wind their carrion rides; 
From the deep roar of traffic see them cower, 
Pressing like precious relies to their sides 
Some satchel stitched with mottoes or a flower.

They trot like marionettes along the level, 
Or drag themselves like wounded deer, poor crones! 
Or dance, against their will, as if the devil 
Were swinging in the belfry of their bones.

Cracked though they are, their eyes are sharp as drills 
And shine, like pools of water in the night, &mdash; 
The eyes of little girls whom wonder thrills 
To laugh at all that sparkles and is bright.

The coffins of old women very often 
Are near as small as those of children are. 
Wise Death, who makes a symbol of a coffin 
Displays a taste both charming and bizarre.

And when I track some feeble phantom fleeing 
Through Paris's immense ant-swarming Babel, 
I always think that such a fragile being 
Is moving softly to another cradle.

Unless, sometimes, in geometric mood, 
To see the strange deformities they offer, 
I muse how often he who saws the wood 
Must change the shape and outline of the coffer.

Those eyes are wells a million teardrops feed, 
Crucibles spangled by a cooling ore, 
Invincible in charm to all that breed 
Austere Misfortune suckled with her lore.

II

Vestal whom old Frascati could enamour:
Thalia's nun, whose name was only known
To her dead prompter: madcap full of glamour
Whom Tivoli once sheltered as its own &mdash; 

They all elate me. But of these a few, 
Of sorrow having made a honeyed leaven, 
Say to Devotion, "Lend me wings anew, 
O powerful Hippogriff, and fly to heaven."

One for her fatherland a martyr: one 
By her own husband wronged beyond belief: 
And one a pierced Madonna through her son &mdash; 
They all could make a river with their grief.

III

Yes, I have followed them, time and again!
One, I recall, when sunset, like a heart,
Bled through the sky from wounds of ruddy stain,
Pensively sat upon a seat apart,

To listen to the music, rich in metal 
That's played by bands of soldiers in the parks 
On golden, soul-reviving eves, to fettle, 
From meek civilian hearts, heroic sparks.

This one was straight and stiff, in carriage regal, 
She breathed the warrior-music through her teeth, 
Opened her eye like that of an old eagle, 
And bared a forehead moulded for a wreath.

IV

Thus, then, you journey, uncomplaining, stoic
Across the strife of modern cities flung,
Sad mothers, courtesans, or saints heroic,
Whose names of old were heard on every tongue,

You once were grace, and you were glory once. 
None know you now. Derisory advances 
Some drunkard makes you, mixed with worse affronts. 
And on your heels a child-tormentor prances.

But I who watch you tenderly: and measure 
With anxious eye, your weak unsteady gait 
As would a father &mdash; get a secret pleasure 
On your account, as on your steps I wait.

I see your passionate and virgin crazes; 
Sombre or bright, I see your vanished prime; 
My soul, resplendent with your virtue, blazes, 
And revels in your vices and your crimes.

Poor wrecks! My family! Kindred in mind, you 
Receive from me each day my last addresses. 
Eighty-year Eves, will yet tomorrow find you 
On whom the claw of God so fiercely presses?

