Little Old Women

To Victor Hugo

I

In the sinuous folds of the old capitals, 
Where all, even horror, becomes pleasant, 
I watch, obedient to my fatal whims, 
For singular creatures, decrepit and charming.

These disjointed monsters were women long ago,
Eponine or Lais! Monsters, hunch-backed, broken
Or distorted, let us love them! they still have souls.
Clothed in tattered petticoats and flimsy dresses

They creep, lashed by the iniquitous wind, 
Trembling at the clatter of the omnibuses, 
Each pressing to her side, as if it were a relic, 
A small purse embroidered with rebuses or flowers;

They trot exactly like marionettes;
They drag themselves along like wounded animals,
Or dance, against their will, poor little bells
Pulled constantly by a heartless Demon! Broken

Though they are, they have eyes as piercing as gimlets, 
That shine like those holes in which water sleeps at night; 
They have the divine eyes of little girls 
Who are amazed and laugh at everything that gleams.

-- Have you observed how frequently coffins
For old women are almost as small as a child's?
Clever Death brings to these similar biers
A symbol of a strange and captivating taste,

And when I catch a glimpse of a feeble specter 
Crossing the swarming scene that is Paris, 
It always seems to me that that fragile creature 
Is going quietly toward a second cradle;

Unless, pondering on geometry, 
I try, at the sight of those discordant members, 
To figure how many times the workman changes 
The shape of the boxes where those bodies are laid.

-- Those eyes are wells filled with a million tears, 
Crucibles which a quenched metal spangled...
Those mysterious eyes have invincible charms 
For one whom austere Misfortune has suckled!

II

Vestal in love with the late Frascati;
High priestess of Thalia, whose name is known
To her buried prompter; vanished celebrity
Whom Tivoli sheltered at the peak of her fame,

They all enrapture me; among those frail beings 
There are some who, making honey out of sorrow, 
Have said to Devotion who had lent them his wings: 
"Powerful hippogriff, carry me to the sky!"

One, inured to misfortune by her fatherland, 
Another, overwhelmed with grief by her husband, 
Another, a Madonna transfixed by her child, 
Each could have made a river with her tears!

III

Ah! how many of these women I have followed!
One, among others, at the hour when the sunset
Makes the sky bloody with vermilion wounds,
Pensive, used to sit alone on a bench

To hear one of those concerts rich in brass, 
With which the soldiers sometimes flood our public parks 
On those golden evenings when one feels new life within 
And which inspire heroism in the townsman's heart.

Proud, still erect, feeling she must sit thus,
She thirstily drank in that stirring, martial song;
Her eyes opened at times like the eyes of an old eagle;
Her marble brow seemed to be made for the laurel!

IV

Thus you trudge along, stoical, uncomplaining, 
Amid the confusion of cities full of life, 
Mothers with bleeding hearts, courtesans, saints, 
Whose names in years gone by were on everyone's lips.

O you who were charming or who were glorious, 
None recognizes you! A drunken ruffian 
Passing by insults you with an obscene remark; 
A dirty, nasty child frisks about at your heels.

Wizened shadows, ashamed of existing, 
With bent backs, you timidly keep close to the walls 
And no person greets you, strange destinies! 
Human wreckage, ripe for eternity!

But I, I watch you tenderly from a distance; 
My anxious eyes are fixed on your uncertain steps, 
As if I were your own father; how wonderful!
I taste unknown to you clandestine pleasures:

I see your untried passions come into full bloom;
I live your vanished days, gloomy or filled with light;
My heart multiplied enjoys all of your vices!
My soul is resplendent with all of your virtues!

Ruins! my family! O kindred minds! 
I bid you each evening a solemn farewell! 
Octogenarian Eves, upon whom rests 
God's terrible claw, where will you be tomorrow?

