Lesbos

Mother of Latin games and delightful Greeks,
Lesbos, where the kisses, langourous and joyful,
Hot like the sun, fresh like melons,
Ornament the nights and the glorious days;
Mother of latin games and delightful Greeka,s

Lesbos, where the kisses are like waterfalls
That flow fearlessly into the bottomless abyss,
And run, sobbing and giggling in fits,
Stormy and secret, swarming and deep;
Lesbos, where the kisses are like waterfalls!

Lesbos, where the Phrynes are drawn to each other,
Where every sigh is answered by an echo,
Where Paphos and the stars are equally admired,
And Venus has every right to envy Sappho!
Lesbos, where the Phrynes are drawn to each other,

Lesbos, land of hot and langourous nights,
Sterile seductress! Who makes before their mirrors
The dark eyed girls, enamored by their bodies,
Caress the ripe fruits of their nubility;
Lesbos, land of hot and langourous nights,

Let old Plato wrinkle an austere eye;
You draw pardon from the excess of kisses,
Queen of a soft empire, lovable and noble land,
Of inexhaustible refinement.
Let old Plato wrinkle an austere eye.

You draw pardon from the eternal martyr,
Inflicted without rest from ambitious hearts,
Lured far from us by the radiant smile
Glimpsed vaguely at the edge of other skies!
You draw pardon from the eternal martyr!

Who of the Gods would dare be your judge, Lesbos,
And condemn your pale brow with labors,
If his golden scales have not measured the flood
Of tears which your streams have poured into the sea?
Who of the Gods would dare be your judge, Lesbos?

What use to us are the laws of the just and unjust?
Virgins of a sublime heart, honor of the isles,
Your religion is august as any other,
And love laughs at Hell as well as heaven!
What use to us are the laws of the just and unjust?

For Lesbos has chosen me upon the earth
To sing the secret of its virgins and flowers,
And I was admitted as a child to her dark mysteries
Of frantic laughter mixed with somber tears;
For Lesbos has chosen me upon the earth.

And since then I watch from Leucadia's summit,
Like a sentinel with an eye piercing and sure,
I watch night and day each brig, tartan and frigate,
Whose forms shimmer in the blue from afar;
And since then I watch from Leucadia's summit

To know if the sea is kind and indulgent,
And through the sobs which the rock retains
One evening will be restored to Lesbos, who pardons,
The beloved cadaver of Sappho, who parted
To know if the sea is kind and indulgent!

Of manlike Sappho, the lover and the poet,
More beautiful than Venus in her pallid mourning!
The blue eyes vanquished by the dark eyes
Traced with darkened circles by the sorrows
Of manlike Sappho, the lover and the poet!

More beautiful than Venus standing on the earth
And pouring her treasures and serenity
And the radiance of her blonde youth
Upon the old seas which her daughter enchanted;
More beautiful than Venus standing on the earth!

Sappho who one day died for her blasphemy,
When, insulting the rite and the invented cult,
She made her fair body the supreme pasture
Of a brute whose pride punished the impiety
Of she who one day died for her blasphemy.

And since that time Lesbos has lamented,
And despite the honors bestowed on it by the universe,
Each night finds it drunk on the cries of torment
Which rise to heaven from her deserted shores!
And since that time Lesbos has lamented!
