Damned Women (Delphine and Hippolyta)

In the pale light of the languishing lamps
On the deep cushions pregnant with perfume
Hippolyta dreamed of powerful caresses
Which lifted the curtain of her youthful innocence

She sought with an eye troubled by the tempest
Already far from her naivete's skies
Like a voyager who turns her head back
Toward the blue horizons that surpassed the daybreak

Her eyes dimmed by lazy tears
The defeated look, the stupor, the voluptuous mourning
Her arms vanquished, thrown aside like useless weapons
All seemed to serve her fragile beauty

Spread out at her feet, calm and full of joy
Delphine gazed upon her with ardent eyes
Like an strong animal admiring its prey
After having marked it up with its teeth

Strong beauty on her knees before a beauty frail,
Superb, she sniffed voluptuously
The wine of her triumph, and stretched out before her
As if to collect a soft thankfulness

She looked in the eye of her pale victim
The silent hymn which sings of pleasure
And this infinite gratitude sublime
Which came from her eye like an extended sigh

"Hippolyta, dear heart, what do you say of these things?
Do you understand now you must not offer
The holy sacrifice of your first roses
To the violent breaths that would wither them?

My kisses are light like emphemeral things
That caress in the evening the great limpid lakes
And those of your lover would dig deep furrows
Like wagons or plowshares tearing the ground

They would pass over you like a heavy team
Of horses or oxen, feet mercilessly shod
Hippolyta, oh my sister! Turn therefore your face
You, my heart and my soul, my half and my all

Turn your eyes toward me, full of blue and of stars
For one of those charming looks, balm divine
I would lift the veils of the most obscure pleasures
And I would make you sleep in a dream without end!"

But Hippolyta then raising her young head
"I'm not ungrateful and I do not repent,
My Delphine, I suffer and I am uneasy
Like after a nocturnal and terrible meal

I feel fall upon me heavy terrors
And black battalions of sparse phantoms
Who want to lead me on shifting roads
To a bloody horizon wich closes around me

Have we therefore committed a strange deed?
Explain, if you can, my trouble and fear
I shiver with fear when you call me your angel
And yet I feel my lips drawn toward you.

Do not regard me thus, my dear!
You whom I'd love forever, my chosen sister,
When you could still be a trap set for me
And the start of my road to perdition!"

Delphine shook her tragic mane
And as if stamping on an iron tripod
With a deadly eye responded in a despotic voice
"Who dares speak of Hell in the presence of love?

Eternally cursed be that useless dreamer
Who for the first time, in his stupidity,
Was entranced by a problem, unsolvable and sterile
To mix matters of love together with honesty!

He who wished to unite with a mystic accord
The shade with the heat, the night with the day,
His paralytic body will never be heated
By the crimson sun that we call love

Go, if you will, find a stupid fiance
Run and offer your virgin heart to his cruel kisses
Then, full of remorse and horror, and livid
Return to me with your stigmatized breasts

Here below we are able to serve but one master!"
But the child pouring out an enormous sadness
Suddenly cried "I feel spreading through my being
A gaping abyss, this abyss is my heart!"

Burning like a volcano and deep like the void!
Nothing satisfies this wailing monster
And nothing refreshes the thirst of the Fury
Who, torch in the hand, burns it to the blood

Let our closed curtains sever us from the world
And let our languor bring us repose!
I want to be annihilated in your deep throat
And find in your breast the peace of the tomb!"

Descend, descend, lamentable victims
Descend on the path to eternal Hell!
Dive into the deepest abyss, where all crimes
Will be whipped by a wind which blows not from the sky

Boiling pell-mell with the noise of a storm
Foolish shades, run to the goal of your desires
You will never be able to sooth your rage
And your punishment will be born from your pleasures

No fresh sun ray will ever light up your caverns
Where the cracks of the walls let in feverous miasmas
Which filter in and flame up like lanterns
And penetrate your body with their frightful odors

The rough sterility of your joys
Stirs up your thirst and hardens your skin
And the furious wind of lustfulness
Makes your flesh wave like an old tattered flag

Far from living souls, wandering, condemned,
Running through the deserts like wolves
Chase down your destiny, disordered souls
And flee from the infinite you carry within you
