A Phantom

I. The Shadows

In the caverns of inestimable sadness
To which Destiny has already relegated me;
Where never enters a ray pink and gay;
Where there is only Night, gloomy hostess,

I am like a painter whom a mocking God
Has condemned to paint in the darkness, alas!
Where, cooking for morbid appetites,
I boil and eat my own heart,

At times a spectre made of grace and splendor
Shines and stretches out
In its dreamy oriental allure,
When it reaches its total grandeur
I recognize my beautiful visitor:

It is she, dark and yet luminous!

II. The Perfume

Reader, have you sometimes breathed
Ecstatically and slowly savoring
This grain of incense which fills a church,
Or the long-standing musk of a sachet?

Deep magical charm which makes us tipsy
And restores in the present the past!
Thus the lover of a body adored
Picks an exquisite flower from memory.

In her hair elastic and heavy,
Living sachet, scenting the alcove,
A scent rises, savage and wild,

And the gowns, muslin and velvet,
Are impregnated with her pure youth,
Letting off the perfume of fur.

III. The Frame

Like a beautiful frame adds to a painting,
Even if done with a highly-praised brush,
There's something strange and enchanting
In isolating it from immense Nature.

Thus jewels, furnishings, metals, and gold
Suited well her rare beauty;
Nothing obscures the perfect clarity,
And everything seems to make for her a frame.

One would even say sometimes she believes
That everything wants to love her; she drowned
Voluptuously her nudity

In the kisses of satin and linen,
And, slow and brusque, with every movement
Showed the childish grace of a monkey.

IV. The Portrait

Disease and death make ashes
Of everything that burned for us.
Of the great eyes so fervent and tender,
Of this mouth where my heart drowned,

Of those strong kisses like a balm,
Of the transports more vibrant than sun rays,
What remains? It is awful, my soul!
Nothing but a pale sketch, in three colors,

Which like me dies in the solitude,
And like Time, injurious old man,
Every day rubs with a rough wing...

Black assassin of Life and of Art,
You will never kill within my memory
She who was my pleasure and my glory!
