The Little Old Ladies

I

In the sinuous folds of the old capitals
Where all, even horror, turns into enchantment
I watch, obedient to my fatal moods,
The peculiar beings, decrepit and charming

These dislocated monsters, who were long ago women,
Eponine or Lais! Broken monsters, hunchbacked
Or crooked, let us love them! They are still souls.
Beneath the holey dresses and the cold cloth

They crawl along, whipped by iniquitous kisses,
Trembling from the rolling chaos of the carriages
And clutching close to their sides, like relics,
Little bags embroidered with flowers or rebuses

They trot, like marionettes
They trail, like wounded animals
They dance, without meaning to, poor little bells
Dangled by a pitiless demon.

Broken as they are, they have eyes like a gimlet,
Glistening like the holes where water sleeps at night
They are the divine eyes of a little girl
Who is astonished and laughs at all that glitters

Have you ever noticed the caskets of old women
Are almost as small as those of a child
Wise death receives these coffins just the same
A symbol of a taste bizarre and captivating

And whenever I glimpse such a feeble phantom
Crossing the swarming tableau of Paris
It seems to me always that this fragile being
Is softly departing toward a new cradle

Or else, meditating upon the geometry
I ponder the position of their disarrayed limbs
And how many times the worker must vary
The form of the box in which their corpse is placed

These eyes are the wells made of a million tears
The crucibles in which a metal was cooled
These mysterious eyes hold invincible charms
For those who were nursed on austere Misfortune

II

Vestal virgin enamored with the dead Frascati
Priestess of Thalia, alas, name only known
To her buried prompter; long lost celebrity
Who was sheltered by Tivoli when she flourished

These all intoxicate me; but among these frail beings
There are some, who turning Sadness to honey,
Who said to Devotion, who lent them his wings:
"Powerful hippogriff, lead me up to the sky!"

One, who was badly treated by her country
Another burdened with grief by her husband
Another Madonna pierced through by her child
All would have made a river of their tears

III

Ah how I followed these little old ladies!
One, among others, at the hour the sun set
And turned the sky blood-red with vermillion wounds,
Pensive, would sit alone on a bench

To hear one of the concerts, rich with brass,
With which at times soldiers would flood our parks,
Pouring heroism within the hearts of citizens,
On those golden evenings when one feels a revival

She, still upright and proud and feeling the regality
Avidly took in the lively martial tune
Her eye at times opened just like an old eagle's
Her marbled brow had a manner that would merit a laurel

IV

So many of you walk on, stoic, uncomplaining
Through all the chaos of lively cities
Mothers with hearts bleeding, courtesans or saints
Whose names in earlier days were known to all

You who once were all grace and glory
None of you are recognized! An impolite drunkard
Insults you in passing with a lewd remark
A vile craven child gambols about your heels

Shriveled shadows, ashamed of existing,
Fearful ones, backs bent, you creep close to the walls
And none greet you, strange destinies
Debris of humanity ripe for eternity

But me, I watch you tenderly from afar
With a troubled eye fixed on your uncertain steps
As if I were your father, what a marvel!
I taste unknown to you clandestine pleasures

I see in you blossom your novice passions
Somber and luminous, I see your lost days
My heart swells, aroused by all of your vices
My soul is resplendent with all of your virtues

Ruins! Oh my family! Oh my kindred minds!
Every evening I bid you a solemn farewell!
Where will you be tomorrow, octogenarian Eves
Who bear the heavy weight of God's fearful claw?
