The Voyage

To Maxine du Camp

I

For the child, in love with maps and prints,
The universe is equal to his vast appetite.
Ah! How great the world is in the light of lamps!
In the eyes of memory the world is small!

One morning we part, brain full of fire,
Heart fat with with rancor and bitter desires,
And we go, following the rhythm of the waves,
Rocking our infinite upon the finite seas:

One, happy to flee an infamous country;
Another, the horror of their birthplace, and others,
Astrologers drowned in the eyes of a woman,
The tyrannical Circe with her dangerous perfumes.

To not be changed to a beast, they drink in
The space and the light and the embraces of the skies;
The ice that bites, the suns that cook,
Slowly erase the mark of kisses.

But the true voyagers are those whose souls depart
For the sake of leaving, hearts light like balloons,
They never stray from their fatality,
And without knowing why they always say: Let's go!

Those whose desires take the shape of nudes,
And who dream, like the conscript of the cannon,
Of vast desires unknown and changeable,
And whose name has never been known to the human mind!

II

We imitate--horror!--the spinning top and ball
In their waltz and bounce, like in our sleep
Curiosity torments us and rolls us
Like a cruel angel who whips the sun.

Peculiar fortune that the goal moves round,
And, being nowhere could be anywhere!
Where Man, whose hope never wearies,
To find repose runs around like mad!

Our soul is a three-masted ship seeking Icarus;
A voice rings out on the bridge, "Open your eyes!"
A voice from the foretop, ardent and mad, cries:
"Love...glory...happiness!" Hell! It is a rock!

Every islet signaled by the watch,
Is an Eldorado promised by Destiny;
Imagination makes of it an orgy
Found only to be a reef in the light of morning.

Oh the poor lovers of imaginary countries!
Must they be put in chains, thrown into the sea,
This drunken sailor, inventor of the Americas
Whose mirage renders the abyss more bitter?

Such an old vagabond, stomping in the mud,
Dream, nose in the air, of brilliant paradises;
His eye ensorceled discovers a Capua
Everywhere the candle lights a hovel.

III

Astonishing voyagers! What noble stories
We read in your eyes, deep like the seas!
Show us the jewels of your rich memories,
These marvelous gems, made of stars from the ether.

We wish to voyage without wind or sails!
To liven up the boredom of our prisons,
Make pass over our spirits, stretched tight like canvases,
Your memories framed by the horizons.

Say, what have you seen?

IV

"We have seen the stars
And the floods, we have seen the sands as well;
And despite the shocks of unforeseen disasters,
We often have been bored, as we are here.

The glory of the sun over the violet sea,
The glory of cities in the setting sun,
Lit in our hearts an uneasy ardor
To dive enchanted into the reflected sky.

The richest cities, the greatest countrysides,
Never contained the mysterious appeals
Of those which chance bestowed upon the clouds.
And Desire always rendered us uneasy!

Desire is fortified by enjoyment.
Desire, old tree for which pleasure serves as fertilizer,
However, while you grow and harden your bark,
Your branches wish to see the sun more near!

Will you always grow, great tree, so lively
Like the cypress? Yet we have, with care,
Picked some sketches for your voracious album
Brothers who find beauty in all from afar!

We have saluted false idols;
Thrones embellished by luminous jewels;
Elaborate palaces with fairytale pomp
Which would be for bankers a ruinous dr;eam

Costumes which make the eye delirious;
Women whose teeth and nails are dyed,
And talented jugglers caressed by serpents."

V

And then, and then more?

VI

"Oh childish minds!

To not forget the main thing,
We have seen everywhere, and without searching,
From high to low the fatal ladder,
The boring spectacle of sin immortal:

The woman, vile slave, proud and stupid,
Adoring herself without laughing, loving herself without disgust;
The gluttonous man, depraved, hard and greedy,
Slave of the slave, a stream in the sewer;

The executioner who rejoices, the martyr who sobs;
The party seasoned and perfumed by blood;
The poison of power that weakens the despot,
And the amorous people whipped to exhaustion;

Many religions similar to ours,
All ascending on the sky, Saintliness,
Like a spoiled one who nestled in a feather bed,
Seeking pleasure on horsehair and nails;

Drooling humanity, drunk with its genius,
And still mad like it's been since days of yore,
Crying to God in furious agony:
"Oh, my comrade, my master, I curse you!"

And the less foolish, hardy lovers of Madness,
Flee the great troop corraled by Destiny,
And take refuge in great Opium!
Such is always the news from around the world."

VII

Bitter is the knowledge achieved by travel!
The world, small and homogenous today,
Yesterday, tomorrow, we are shown our own image:
An oasis of horror in a desert of boredom!

Must we depart? Remain? Remain, remain if you can;
Depart if you must. One runs, another hides
To fool the enemy, vigilant and disastrous,
Time! The runners without respite,

Like the Wandering Jew and like the Apostles,
For whom nothing suffices, not wagon nor ship,
To flee its infamous net; there are still others
Who know how to murder without leaving their cribs.

And until he at last plants his foot on your spine,
We can still hope and shout out: Forward!
And like in other times as we parted for China,
With eyes fixed on the distance and our hair in the wind,

We will embark on the sea of Darkness
With the joyous heart of a young voyager.
Do you hear this voice charming and morbid,
That sings, "This way you who wish to eat

The perfumed Lotus! Here is the vintage
Of miraculous fruits which your heart hungers for;
Come succumb to the delirious of the sweetly exotic
In this afternoon which never never will end!"

In this familiar accent we divine the spectre;
Our Pylades there stretch their hands toward us
"To refresh your heart swim toward your Electra!"
Says this one whose knees we kissed in former days.

VIII

Oh Death, old captain, it is time! Lift the anchor!
This country bores us, Oh Death, let's cast off!
Though the sky and the sea are black like the ink,
Our hearts as you know are radiant with light!

Pour your poison upon us so it may refresh us!
The fire so burns in our brains that we wish,
To plunge into the abyss, Hell or Heaven, what matter?
At the end of the unknown to discover the New!
