The Peace Pipe

(in imitation of Longfellow)

I

Gitche Manito, the Master of Life,
The Powerful, descended to the green prairie
In the immense prairie in the tall hills
And there, in the rocks of the Red Quarry
Commanding all space and bathed in the light
Stood vast and majestic

Then he summoned the innumerable tribes
More numerous than the plants and the sands
With his terrible hand he broke off a piece
Of rock, and crafted a superb pipe
Then, at the banks of the stream, in an enormous sheaf
Chose a long reed to fashion a pipe

To fill it he took a willow's bark
And he, the All Powerful, Creator of Strength
Stood up and lit like a beacon divine
The Peace Pipe.  Standing on the Quarry
He smoked skillfully, superb and bathed with light
And this was a signal for all of the nations

And slowly ascended the smoke divine
In the soft air of morning, fragrant and wavy,
And at first it was only a shadowy furrow
Then came the smoke, more blue and more thick
Then whitened; and climbing, ceaselessly increasing
It rose up to break the ceiling of the sky

From the faraway summits of the Rocky Mountains
The Great Lakes of the north with their noisy waves
From Tawasentha, the valley without equal
To great Tuscaloosa, the perfumed forest
Everyone saw the signal, the tremendous smoke
Climbed peacefully into the vermillion morning

The prophets proclaimed, "Do you see this band
Of smoke which resembles a commanding hand
Oscillating and shearing the night from the sun?
'Tis Gitche Manito, the Master of Life
Who commands the four corners of the immense prairie
"I call you all, warriors, to heed to my counsel."

Along the great waters, through the roads of the plains,
By the four coasts from which blow the breaths of the winds
All the warriors from every tribe comprehended,
The signal from the cloud that moved
And obediently they traveled to the Red Quarry
Where Gitche Manito called a rendezvous

The warriors all stood upon the green prairie
All equipped for war, with their seasoned manners,
Varied as much as the autumnal foliage
And the hatred which caused them all to fight each other
The hate that had burned in their ancestors' eyes
Still lit up their eyes with a terrible flame

And their eyes were all full of inherited hatred
Then Gitche Manito, ithe Master of Earth
Regarded them all compassionately
Like a very good father, enemy of disorder,
Who saw his dear little ones battle and murder
Gitche Manito, father of each nation

He extended to them his mighty right hand
To subjugate their hearts and their narrow natures
To cool down their fevers with his right hand's shadow
Then called to them all with a voice majestic
Which mimicked the voice of tumultuous waters
Which fell with a monstrous superhuman sound:

II

"Oh my posterity!  Deplorable and dear!
Oh my sons!  Listen to divine reason!
I am Gitche Manito, the Master of Life
Who speaks to you! He who in your homeland
Did give you bear and beaver, the reindeer and bison

I gave you the hunt and the easy fishing
Then why has the hunter become an assassin?
The marshes I filled full of birds for you all
Why aren't you content then, you unruly children?
Why then would the man rather hunt down his neighbor?

I'm weary indeed of this horrible warfare
Your prayers and your wishes are all the same forfeit!
The peril for you is from humors contrary
And it is in union that you have your strength!
So go forth as brothers, and know and keep peace.

Soon you will receive from my hand a great Prophet
Who'll come and will teach you and suffer for you
His word will make life a great celebration
But if you despise this prophet's perfect wisdom
You poor damned children, you'll all disappear

Cease then from waving your murderous colors
The reeds are numerous and the rock is thick
Everyone can fashion a pipe.  All the wars
All the bloodshed!  From here on I say live as brothers
And as one you should all smoke the great Pipe of Peace.

III

And they suddenly all cast their arms to the ground
Washing off in the stream all the colors of war
Which had shined on their foreheads so cruel and triumphant
Each carved out a pipe and picked from the bank
Tall reeds they adorned with remarkable skill
And the Great Spirit smiled down upon his poor children

Each then returned with a soul calm and eager
And Gitche Manito, the Master of Life
Climbed back up through the door and re-entered the skies
And through the splendid smoke of the cloud
The All Powerful one rose, content with his labor
Immense and perfumed, sublime and radiant!


