The Unexpected

Harpagon, who watched over his dying father,
Mused to himself, before those lips already white:
"We have in the attic, it seems to me,
A sufficient number of old boards"

Célimène murmured and said, "My heart is good,
And naturally, God has made me beautiful."
Her heart! Hardened heart! Smoked like a ham
Made leathery by the eternal flame!

A smoky journalist, who believed himself a flame
Said to a pauper whom he had drowned in darkness
"Where do you see him, this creator of beauty,
This redeemer you celebrate?"

Best of all, I know a certain lustful one
Who dances night and day, and laments and cries
Repeating, powerless and conceited, "Yes, I want
To be virtuous--an hour from now!"

The clock, as it runs, says in a bass voice, "He is ripe,
The damned one! I warn the infected flesh
Man is blind, deaf, fragile like a wall
Lived in and gnawed by an insect!"

And then, someone appears, who has denied all
And who says to them, mocking and proud, "In my cup
You have taken, I believe, enough communion
From the joyous Black Mass?

Each of you has made for me a temple in your heart
You have secretly kissed my vile ass
Acknowledge Satan as your laughing conqueror
Enormous and ugly like the world!"

Have you therefore been able to believe, surprised hypocrites,
That the master is mocked, and that he is tricked,
And it's natural that you would receive two prizes,
To go to Heaven and to be rich?

The game has to pay the old hunter
Who long awaited his prey in his blind
I am going to take you through the thickness,
Companions of my sad joy,

Through the thickness of the earth and the rock
Through the confused pile of your ashes
To a palace as large as myself, made entirely
Of a single block of hard stone

Since it is made of universal Sin,
And it contains my pride, my sadness and my glory!"
However, on high in the universe
An angel sounded the victory

Of those whose hearts say, "How blessed is your whip,
Sir! And blessed be the sadness, Oh Father!
My soul is no idle toy in your hands
And your prudence is infinite!"

The sound of the trumpet is so delightful
In the solemn evenings of the celestial harvest
That it penetrates like an ecstasy all of those
Who sing its praises
