Benediction

When, on a certain day, into this harassed world 
The Poet, by decree of the high powers, was born, 
His mother, overwhelmed by shame and fury, hurled 
These blasphemies at God, clenching her fists in scorn:

"Would I had whelped a knot of vipers -- at the worst
'Twere better than this runt that whines and snivels there!
Oh, cursed be that night of pleasure, thrice accurst
My womb, that has conceived and nourished my despair!

"Since, of all mortal women, it would seem my fate
To be my saddened husband's horror and disgust;
And since I may not toss this monster in the grate -- 
Like any crumpled letter, reeking of stale lust -- 

"Upon his helpless form, whereby Thou humblest me,
I shall divert Thy hatred in one raging flood;
And I shall twist so well this miserable tree
That it shall not put forth one pestilential bud!"

Thus did she foam with anger, railing, swallowing froth; 
And, unaware of what the mighty powers had willed, 
She set about to draw Gehenna on them both, 
Eyeing the fire, considering how he might be killed.

Meantime, above the child an unseen angel beats 
His wings, and the poor waif runs laughing in the sun; 
And everything he drinks and everything he eats 
Are nectar and ambrosia to this hapless one.

Companioned by the wind, conversing with the cloud, 
Along the highway to the Cross his song is heard; 
And the bright Spirit, following him, weeps aloud 
To see him hop so gaily, like a little bird.

Those whom he longs to love observe him with constraint 
And fear, as he grows up; or, seeing how calm he is, 
Grow bold, and seek to draw from him some sharp complaint, 
Wreaking on him all day their dull ferocities.

Cinders are in his bread, are gritty in his teeth; 
Spittle is in his wine. Where his footprints are seen 
They hesitate to set their shoes, mincing beneath 
Hypocrisy; all things he touched, they call unclean.

His wife in public places cries, "Since after all
He loves me so, that he's the laughingstock of men,
I'll make a business of it, be an idol, call
For gold, to have myself regilded now and then!

"And some day, when I'm drunk with frankincense, rich food, 
Flattery, genuflexions, spikenard, beady wine, 
I'll get from him (while laughing in his face, I could!) 
That homage he has kept, so far, for things divine.

"And, when my pleasure in these impious farces fails, 
My dainty, terrible hands shall tear his breast apart, 
And these long nails of mine, so like to harpies' nails, 
Shall dig till they have dug a tunnel to his heart.

"Then, like a young bird, caught and fluttering to be freed, 
('Twill make a tasty morsel for my favorite hound) 
I'll wrench his heart out, warm and bleeding -- let it bleed! -- 
And drop it, with contempt and loathing, to the ground."

Meanwhile toward Heaven, the goal of his mature desire, 
The Poet, oblivious, lifts up his arms in prayer; 
His lucid essence flames with lightnings -- veiled by fire 
Is all the furious world, all the lewd conflict there.

"Be praised, Almighty God, that givest to faulty me 
This suffering, to purge my spirit of its sin, 
To fortify my puny strength, to bid me see 
Pure Faith, and what voluptuous blisses dwell therein.

"I know that in those ranks on ranks of happy blest 
The Poet shall have some place among Thy Seraphim; 
And that Thou wilt at length to the eternal feast 
Of Virtues, Thrones and Dominations, summon him.

"I know, Pain is the one nobility we have 
Which not the hungry ground nor hell shall ever gnaw; 
I know that space and time, beyond the temporal grave, 
Weave me a mystic crown, free from all earthly flaw.

"Not emeralds, not all the pearls of the deep sea, 
All the rare metals, every lost and buried gem 
Antique Palmyra hides, could ever seem to me 
So beautiful as that clear glittering diadem.

"Of Light, of Light alone, it will be fashioned, Light 
Drawn from the holy fount, rays primitive and pure, 
Whereof the eyes of mortal men, so starry bright, 
Are but the mirrors, mirrors cloudy and obscure."

