Benediction

When by decree of the almighty powers, 
The Poet walks the world's wearisome sod, 
His mother, blasphemous and fearful, cowers, 
Clenching her fist against a pitying God:

-- "Ah, would whole knots of vipers were my spawn 
Rather than this woeful abomination! 
Cursed be the sweet swift night and evil dawn 
Wherein my womb conceived my expiation!

Since of all women Thou hast chosen me 
To be my sorry husband's shame of shames, 
Since I may not toss this monstrosity 
Like an old billet-doux into the flames,

Thy heavy hatred I shall vomit back 
On the damned tool of your malevolence, 
Twisting this wretched tree until it crack, 
Never to sprout in buds of pestilence!" 

Thus she gulps down the froth of her despair, 
Nor knowing the eternal paradigms, 
Sinks deep into Gehenna to prepare, 
Herself, the pyre set for a mother's crimes. 

Yet guarded by an unseen Angel's favors, 
The outcast child is fired by radiant suns, 
In all he eats and all he drinks he savors 
Ambrosial gifts and nectared benisons, 

He sports with winds, he talks with clouds, he keeps 
Singing along the road to Calvary, 
While the bright Angel in his traces weeps, 
Beholding him as free as birds are free.

All those whom he would love watch him with fear, 
Or else, made bold by his serenity, 
Wring groans from him that float sweet on the ear 
Making him touchstone of their cruelty.

With his due bread and wine, hypocrites, they, 
Mix ashes and fat gobs of spittle; grim, 
What he has touched, these humbugs cast away, 
Deeming it guilty but to follow him.

His wife cries in the market place: "Behold 
Since he adores me, I am fair, and fain, 
As idols did, and images of old, 
To be regilded and adored again.

I shall be drunk with spikenard, incense, myrrh,
With genuflections, viands and wine to see
If, as a glad usurper, I may stir
His heart to pay God's homages to me!

Tired of these impious japes and of their butt,
My strong lithe hand's caress with subtle art
And my sharp nails like harpy claws shall cut
A mortal path straight to his quivering heart.

That heart which flutters like a fledgling bird, 
I shall tear, bleeding, from his breast, to pitch 
It blandly in the dust without a word 
To slake the hunger of my favorite bitch."

To Heaven where he spies a splendent throne, 
Serene, the Poet lifts rapt arms; and bright 
Luminous thoughts that shine through him alone 
Conceal the furious rabble from his sight:

-- "Blessed, O God, who send woe for a cure, 
A balm divine for our impurities, 
Of essences the noblest and most pure 
To school the strong for holy ecstasies!

I know the Poet has his place above 
Amid God's saintly hosts and congregations, 
Guest at the everlasting banquet of 
The Thrones, the Virtues and the Dominations.

Sorrow alone is noble and august, 
A force nor earth nor hell shall ever mar, 
To weave my mystic crown I know you must 
Tax every age and universe that are.

Old Tadmor's vanished gems beyond all price, 
Metals unknown, pearls from the richest sea, 
Set by Thy holy hand, cannot suffice 
To match this dazzling chapter's splendency;

This diadem shall be of sheerest light, 
Drawn from the sacred source of primal rays, 
Whereof our mortal eyes, however bright, 
Serve but as piteous mirrors dull with glaze."

