Murdered Woman

Drawing of an Unknown Master

Flasks of expensive scent, embroideries, rich brocades, 
Taffeta sofas, satin chairs;
Statues in marble, paintings; fragrance that pervades 
The empty, sumptuous gowns; warm airs

And sweet, -- yet sultry, damp, unhealthful to inhale:
That sickening green-house atmosphere
Dying bouquets in their glass coffins give -- a stale 
Voluptuous chamber... Lying here

A corpse without a head, whence flows in a bright stream, 
Making an ever broadening stain,
The red and living blood, which the white pillows seem 
To lap up like a thirsty plain.

Pale as those awful shapes that out of shadow stare,
Chaining our helpless eyes to theirs,
The head, with its great mass of rich and somber hair -- 
The earrings still in the small ears -- 

Like a ranunculus on the night-table sits;
And, void of thought, blank as the light
Of dawn, a glinting vague regard escapes from its
Eyeballs, up-rolled and china-white.

The headless trunk, in shameless posture on the bed,
Naked, in loose abandon lies,
Its secret parts exposed, its treasures all outspread
As if to charm a lover's eyes.

One sequined stocking, pink against the milky thigh,
Remains, pathetic souvenir;
The jeweled garter, like a flashing, secret eye,
Darts and withdraws a diamond leer.

A languorous portrait on the wall contrives to give
Force to the singular effect
Of the deep solitude, -- the eyes provocative,
The pose inviting, half-erect.

The ghost of something strange and guilty, of some feast
Involving most improper fare,
Demoniac kisses, all obscure desires released,
Swims in the silent curtains there.

And yet, that fragile shoulder, that fine hand and arm -- 
How delicate the curve they make! -- 
The pelvic bones so sweetly pointed, the whole form
Lithe as a teased and fighting snake! -- 

She must have been quite young... her senses, all her soul,
Avid for life and driven wild
By tedium, set ajar, it may be, to the whole
Pack of perversions... ah, poor child!

Did he at length, that man, his awful thirst too great
For living flesh to satisfy,
On this inert, obedient body consummate
His lust? -- O ravished corpse, reply!

Answer me, impure thing! Speak, frightening head, and tell:
Lifting you up by your long hair,
Did he on your cold teeth imprint in last farewell
One kiss, before he set you there?

Far from the mocking world, the peering crowd, oh far
From inquest, coroner, magistrate,
Sleep; sleep in peace; I leave you lying as you are,
Mysterious unfortunate.

In vain your lover roves the world; the thought of you
Troubles each chamber where he lies:
Even as you are true to him, he will be true
To you, no doubt, until he dies.

