Still Life

From a Drawing by an Unknown master

Flasks of perfume, fabrics lame and spangled, rich
Furnishings of brocade and gold,
Statues of marble, paintings, scented dresses which
Trail, fold on sumptuous soft fold,

A warm room, sultry as a hothouse, where one fears
The air is poisonous with death,
Faded bouquets which, drooping in their crystal biers,
Exhale their ultimate faint breath.

A headless corpse pours forth a stream of vivid red
Blood on damp pillows, and the white
Linens absorb the bubbling flow into the bed
Avidly as a meadow might.

Pale as a specter born of a black dream's despair,
To strike our eyes and rivet them,
The head, with its dense curly mane of somber hair,
And its detail of gold and gem,
Rests on a small commode, like a ranunculus,
Comfortably; void of surmise,
A glint, leaden and blank as dawn, soars, vacuous,
From the stone orbs of upturned eyes.

The naked torso on the bed in graceful ease
Exhibits without scruple or shame
Her secret parts and all the fatal splendencies
Nature bestowed upon this frame.
On her leg, a pink stocking with gold clocks remains,
As it were, like a souvenir,
The jeweled garter, like a secret eye, retains 
A glance sharp as a diamond spear.

That curious air of solitude and, with it, those
Eyes gazing from a portrait near,
As languid and provoking as the sitter's pose, 
Reveal what gloomy loves reigned here.
Wraiths of strange feasts, of guilty joys, of recondite 
Demonic kisses passion moulds
To fill the swarm of evil angels with delight, 
Still hover in the curtain's folds.

She was still young! Did ennui gnaw her heart, exhaust 
Her senses, quench love's normal fires?
Did she grant welcome to the thirsty pack of lost 
Pleasures and devious desires?

That vengeful lover whom your wealth of love could still 
Not sate, you living and robust,
Did he use your inert complacent flesh to fill 
The extreme limits of his lust?
O corpse defiled, with fevered hand in his crazed drouth 
Did he grasp your stiff tresses? Tell,
Tell me, grim head, did he glue on your icy mouth 
The kisses of his last farewell?

Far from a jeering world and courts where without cease 
Magistrates probe as lawyers rave,
O most bizarre of beings, sleep ever at peace, at peace 
In your remote mysterious grave.
Whilst your mate roams the earth, your deathless form 
Keeps royal vigil over his sleeping breath,
And surely, like yourself, he shall continue loyal 
And constant to you unto death.

