A Martyr

Drawing by an unknown master

In the midst of perfume flasks, of sequined fabrics 
And voluptuous furniture,
Of marble statues, pictures, and perfumed dresses 
That trail in sumptuous folds,

In a warm room where, as in a hothouse, 
The air is dangerous, fatal,
Where bouquets dying in their glass coffins 
Exhale their final breath,

A headless cadaver pours out, like a river, 
On the saturated pillow
Red, living blood, that the linen drinks up 
As greedily as a meadow.

Like the pale visions engendered by shadows
And which hold our eyes riveted,
The head, its mane of hair piled up in a dark mass 
And wearing precious jewels,

On the bedside table, like a ranunculus,
Reposes; and, empty of thoughts,
A stare, blank and pallid as the dawn,
Escapes from the upturned eyeballs.

On the bed, the nude torso shamelessly displays
With the most complete abandon
The secret splendor and fatal beauty
That nature had bestowed on her;

A rose stocking embroidered with gold clocks remains
On her leg like a souvenir;
The garter, like a hidden flashing eye,
Darts its glance of diamond brilliance.

The bizarre aspect of that solitude
And of a large, languid portrait
With eyes as provocative as the pose,
Reveals an unwholesome love,

Guilty joys and exotic revelries,
With infernal kisses
That delighted the swarm of bad angels
Hovering in the curtains' folds;

And yet one sees from the graceful slimness
Of the angular shoulders.
The haunches slightly sharp, and the waist sinuous
As a snake poised to strike,

That she's still quite young! -- Had her exasperated soul 
And her senses gnawed by ennui
Thrown open their gates to the thirsty pack 
Of lost and wandering desires?

The vengeful man whom you could not with all your love 
Satisfy when you were alive,
Did he use your inert, complacent flesh to fill 
The immensity of his lust?

Reply, impure cadaver! and by your stiffened tresses 
Raising you with a fevered arm,
Tell me, ghastly head, did he glue on your cold teeth 
The kisses of the last farewell?

-- Far from the sneering world, far from the impure crowd, 
Far from curious magistrates,
Sleep in peace, sleep in peace, bizarre creature, 
In your mysterious tomb;

Your mate roams o'er the world, and your immortal form 
Watches over him when he sleeps;
Even as you, he will doubtless be faithful 
And constant until death.

