The Seven Old Men

City swarming with people, how full you are of dreams! 
Here in broad daylight, surely, the passerby may meet 
A specter, -- be accosted by him! Mystery seems 
To move like a thick sap through every narrow street.

I thought (daybreak, it was, in a sad part of town) 
"These houses look much higher in the fog!" -- they stood 
Like two gray quays between which a muddy stream flows down; 
The setting of the play matched well the actor's mood.

All space became a dirty yellow fog; I tried 
To fight it off; I railed at my poor soul, whose feet, 
Weary already, dragged and stumbled at my side. 
Big wagons, bound for market, began to shake the street.

Suddenly there beside me an old man -- all in holes
His garments were, and yellow, like the murky skies,
A sight to wring a rain of coins from kindly souls,
Save for a certain malice gleaming in his eyes,

Appeared. You would have said those eyeballs, without doubt, 
Were steeped in bile -- they sharpened the sleet they looked upon. 
His beard, with its long hairs, stiff as a sword stood out 
Before him, as the beard of Judas must have done.

He stooped so when he walked, his spine seemed not so much
Bending as broken, -- truly, his leg with his backbone
Made a right angle; and his stick, the finishing touch,
Gave him the awkward gait -- now rearing, now half-thrown -- 

Of a three-legged Jew, or some lame quadruped. 
It crossed my mind, as through the mud and snow he went, 
"He walks like someone crushing the faces of the dead. 
Hostile, that's what he is; he's not indifferent."

A man exactly like him followed him. From beard 
To stick they were the same, had risen from the same hell. 
These centenarian twins kept step in rhythmic weird 
Precision, toward some goal which doubtless they knew well.

"What ugly game is this?" I said; "what horseplay's here? 
Am I the butt of knaves, or have I lost my mind?" 
For seven times -- I counted them -- there did appear 
This sinister form, which passed, yet left itself behind.

Let anyone who smiles at my distress, whose heart
No sympathetic horror grips, consider well:
Though these old monsters seemed about to fall apart,
Somehow I knew they were eternal, -- l could tell!

Had I beheld one more of them, I think indeed 
I should have died! -- for each, in some disgusting way, 
Had spawned himself, lewd Phoenix, from his own foul seed, 
Was his own son and father, -- I fled -- I could not stay.

Angry, bewildered, like a drunken man by whom
All objects are seen double, I locked my door, and heard
My frozen heart cry out with dread in the hot room, -- 
That what was so mysterious should be so absurd!

My reason fought to gain the bridge and take the helm; 
The tempest thrust it back; and rudderless, unrigged, 
A hull which the waves wash but will not overwhelm, 
My soul upon a shoreless sea of horror jigged.

