The Dance of Death

To Ernest Christophe

Proud, as a living person, of her height, 
Her scarf and gloves and huge bouquet of roses, 
She shows such nonchalance and ease as might 
A thin coquette excessive in her poses.

Who, at a ball, has seen a form so slim? 
Her sumptuous skirts extravagantly shower 
To a dry foot that, exquisitely trim, 
Her footwear pinches, dainty as a flower.

The frills that rub her collarbone, and feel, 
Like a lascivious rill against a rock, 
The charms she is so anxious to conceal, 
Defend them, too, from ridicule and mock.

Her eyes are formed of emptiness and shade.
Her skull, with flowers so deftly decked about,
Upon her dainty vertebrae is swayed.
Oh what a charm when nullity tricks out!

"Caricature," some might opine, but wrongly,
Whose hearts, too drunk with flesh that runs to waste,
Ignore the grace of what upholds so strongly.
Tall skeleton, you match my dearest taste!

Come you to trouble with your strong grimace, 
The feast of life? Or has some old desire 
Rowelled your living carcase from its place 
And sent you, credulous, to feed its fire?

With tunes of fiddles and the flames of candles, 
Hope you to chase the nightmare far apart, 
Or with a flood of orgies, feasts, and scandals 
To quench the bell that's lighted in your heart?

Exhaustless well of follies and of faults, 
Of the old woe the alembic and the urn, 
Around your trellised ribs, in new assaults, 
I see the insatiable serpent turn.

I fear your coquetry's not worth the strain, 
The prize not worth the effort you prolong. 
Could mortal hearts your railleries explain? 
The joys of horror only charm the strong.

The pits of your dark eyes dread fancies breathe, 
And vertigo. Among the dancers prudent, 
Hope not your sixteen pairs of smiling teeth 
Will ever find a contemplative student.

Yet who's not squeezed a skeleton with passion? 
Nor ravened with his kisses on the meat 
Of charnels. What of costume, scent, or fashion? 
The man who feigns disgust, betrays conceit.

O noseless geisha, unresisted gouge!
Tell these fastidious feigners, from your husk -- 
"Proud fondling fools, in spite of talc and rouge,
You smell of death. Anatomies of musk,

Withered Antinouses, beaux of dunder, 
Corpses in varnish, Lovelaces of bone, 
The dance of death, with universal thunder, 
Is whirling you to places yet unknown!

From Seine to Ganges frolicking about, 
You see not, through a black hole in the ceiling, 
Like a great blunderbus, with funnelled snout, 
The Angel's trumpet, on the point of pealing.

in every clime, Death studies your devices 
And vain contortions, laughable Humanity, 
And oft, like you, perfumes herself with spices 
Mixing her irony with your insanity!"

